Add Unified Alerts View documentation (experimental) (#12461)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _observing-your-data/alerting/unified-alerts-view.md

---
layout: default
title: Unified Alerts View

> parent: Alerting

Reviewer: This should go under "Alerting dashboards and visualizations".

nav_order: 55
---

> # Unified Alerts View

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Unified alerts view
```

Introduced 3.7
{: .label .label-purple }

> This feature is experimental and should not be used in production. The interface, APIs, and behavior may change in future releases.

Reviewer: Use the existing [EXPERIMENTAL_TEMPLATE.md](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/blob/main/templates/EXPERIMENTAL_TEMPLATE.md) language.

{: .warning}

> The Unified Alerts View is a new surface in OpenSearch Dashboards that consolidates alerts from multiple data sources—OpenSearch Alerting monitors and Prometheus alerting rules—into a single, filterable view. It is delivered behind a feature flag and shown in the application chrome with a **Beta** badge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Unified Alerts View consolidates alerts from OpenSearch monitors and Prometheus alerting rules into a single view, so you can triage alerts across data sources without switching between tools.
```

> ## Overview

Reviewer: This section is not needed. We should create task-oriented headings telling the users why and how they should use these features.

The Unified Alerts View lets you:

- See alert history and currently firing alerts from one or more data sources in a single timeline and table.
- Filter alerts by data source, severity, state, and label.
- Acknowledge OpenSearch alerts and drill into per-alert and per-monitor details.
- Review alerting rules and notification routing across the same set of data sources.

> ## Requirements

Reviewer: This section is not needed - the users will already be in the 3.7 documentation when viewing this page.

To use the Unified Alerts View, your environment must meet the following requirements:

- OpenSearch 3.7 or later.
- OpenSearch Dashboards 3.7 or later.

### Required OpenSearch plugins

The following OpenSearch plugins must be installed on the cluster:

> - [SQL plugin](https://github.com/opensearch-project/sql) (`opensearch-sql`)

Reviewer: These are installed by default so this section is not needed.

- [Alerting plugin](https://github.com/opensearch-project/alerting) (`opensearch-alerting`)

> ## Enabling the Unified Alerts View

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Enabling the unified alerts view
```

> The Unified Alerts View ships disabled by default. To turn it on, add the following line to `opensearch_dashboards.yml` and restart OpenSearch Dashboards:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The unified alerts view is disabled by default. To enable it, add the following line to `opensearch_dashboards.yml` :
```

```yaml
observability.alertManager.enabled: true
```
{% include copy.html %}

> Toggling this setting requires a restart to take effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then restart OpenSearch Dashboards.
```

> ## Accessing the Unified Alerts View

Reviewer: This section is not needed on its own. Also, the description of the user interface is not the best way to present this feature. Please add task-based sections such as "Investigating an alert," "Acknowledging alerts in bulk,"  "Correlating alerts across Prometheus and OpenSearch," or whatever else you think is useful for the readers.

### Alerts tab

The **Alerts** tab is the default. It displays an alert timeline for the selected time range, a faceted filter panel, and a drill-down table of individual alerts. From the table, you can:

- Open an alert detail flyout to inspect the alert and its source monitor.
- Acknowledge an active OpenSearch alert.

The view recognizes the alert states `active`, `pending`, `acknowledged`, `silenced`, `resolved`, and `error`, and the severities `critical`, `high`, `medium`, `low`, and `info`.

### Rules tab

The **Rules** tab lists alerting rules and monitors discovered across the selected data sources, with filters for monitor type and status.

### Routing tab

The **Routing** tab shows how alerts from the selected data sources map to notification channels.

## Limitations

The Unified Alerts View has the following limitations:

- The feature is experimental and ships disabled by default. The interface, APIs, and behavior may change in future releases.
- Toggling the feature flag requires an OpenSearch Dashboards restart.

> - For Prometheus data sources, the view is read-only and may show only currently active alerts when historical alert data is unavailable.

Reviewer: This section is not needed. The first two bullet points are already stated above, and the third one is useful but we don't have a section describing Prometheus data sources here. It would be great to add a task-based section and move this statement there.
